 ---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

###EE 636 – MATRIX COMPUTATIONS
**Year for which the review is written:** 2013-14

**Professor who took the course:** Prof. Madhu Belur

**Motivation behind the course:** 

Matrices are the heart of linear algebra.They are compact representations ,easy to manipulate.They are used by everybody – physicists, biologists, and mathematicians to organize information and study many complex phenomena.This course covers a lot of important tools with respect to linear algebra and matrices, which will be useful in a lot of circumstances (including placements). There will be couple of programming assignments and the load is appropriate for a 6 credit course.

**Course Content:**

Roughly the following topics will be covered:

-LU Decomposition,
-Cholesky Decomposition,
-Least Square Methods for linear equations,
-Projection Matrices.
-Iterative methods for generalized Eigenvalue problems.,
-Singular Value Decomposition
-Perturbation bounds
A more detailed version can be seen [here](https://www.ee.iitb.ac.in/~eeoffice/curriculum/ee_pgcourses_syl.htm#EE636).

**Course Prerequisite:** A little comfort with linear algebra will help, but generally do not require any strong pre-requisites

**Feedback on Lectures:**

80% Attendance was compulsory.

Everything covered in the lectures was from the prescribed textbooks. No slides were provided except for some one or two.

**Feedback on assignments, tutorials and exams:**

There were regular tutorial sessions in the class with TA’s present.If you solve the tutorial properly you don’t have to worry about the exam preparation.

There was a computing assignment based on Scilab.It was fairly easy and was weighted.

Exams were moderate  and tested your concepts and computational abilities too.

**Difficulty level:** Moderate

**Textbooks:**

Van, Golub Matrix Computations

**Softwares Used:**

SCILAB

**Reference books:**

David Watkins Fundamentals of Matrix Computations

**Contact details of reviewer:** kunalphalakiit@gmail.com