---
layout: page
title: EE801-Introduction to Quantum Engineering
subtitle: Reet Mhaske,2024 (Engineering Physics, B.Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE801
- **Course Name**: Introduction to Quantum Engineering
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn 2022-23
- **Instructors**: Prof Kasturi Saha
- **Prerequisites**: None (though knowing Quantum Mechanics helps a lot)
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 5

### Course Content


The course starts with basic of quantum mechanics, two level systems, introduction to Schroedinger's equation, spins, matrix formulation, etc. It then covers basics of quantum optics, including quantization of electromagnetic fields, types of photon sources and detectors, along with characterizing noises. It then introduced spin physics and touched up on Kraus operators. Only part of the actual content mentioned on ASC was covered 

There were guest lectures on characterizing single photon sources, superconducting quantum circuits and applications to quantum chemistry.

The instructor gives equal emphasis to Lab assignments, which includes interfacing arbitrary waveform generator using Matlab , creating desired pulses, generating pulsed waves of given frequency using FPGA /Xen10 boards and running Quantum Tasks using Qiskit. There is a graded project component as well.
### Feedback on Lectures


 The instructor is really enthusiastic about the course, but active effort from students' side is needed. The lectures do not dwell into details. Self -study is expected and necessary. Although the instructor visibly spent effort in the lab component, the lab sessions were not well designed, and expected dedicating a lot of time.  
### Feedback on Evaluations


The examinations were interestingly innovative and tested fundamental concepts. There were surprise quizzes after lab visits as well. Lab assignments were graded based on the effort invested by the students.
### Study Material and Resources


Quantum Mechanics (Griffiths), Quantum optics (Alain Aspect), slides and research papers shared by instructor.
### Follow-up Courses


None 
### Final Takeaway


Aimed at being a balanced mixture of theoretical and experimental aspects, this course is a delight, if one is willing to struggle. Though the course is a bit biased to photonic systems, it gives a wide overview of concepts needed to work in the field of Quantum Systems. It manages to give a fine exposure of experimental skills to people from Physics background, and a good theoretical grasp to ones from Electrical background. 