---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Elective, Communication, Signal]
---



### EE605 - Error Correcting Codes

**Course offered in:**
Session – 2012 Spring

**Course Content:**
This course gives a formal coverage of the basics of coding theory. It is mainly an overview of some neat tricks combining linear algebra, finite fields and a little bit of probability. The focus is on adding redundancy to data to increase resistance to channel noise. You can have a look at the technical contents on the course page on the EE site. ( http://www.ee.iitb.ac.in/~eeoffice/curriculum/ee_pgcourses_syl.htm#EE605 )
It is more math-and-rigor intensive than the general electrical core course, but you don’t go into much depth, so don’t let that scare you off. You will also have a nice, cosy introduction to groups and fields if you haven’t seen them before.

**Prerequisites:**
Linear Algebra (MA 106), and to some extent Probability theory, but the course is mostly common sense, once you have those basics cleared off. Essentially, nothing very advanced is used.

**Feedback on Lectures:**
Prof. Saravanan goes at a moderate pace and writes pretty much everything on the board. Taking notes is useful and quite sufficient as material.

**Grading Statistics:**


**Study Material and References:**
Error Control Coding, Shu Lin and Daniel J. Costello, Second Edition, Prentice Hall, 2004.
This was used as the main reference.

Review by - Neel Shah and Prashant Sohani (neelshah.sa@gmail.com and prashant.sohani@gmail.com)