---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Elective, Communication, Signal]
---

### EE 606 – FIBRE OPTIC COMMUNICATION

**Course offered in:**
Session – 2013-14
**Instructors:**
Prof. Joseph John

**Motivation:**
To understand the basic sub-systems (Transmitter, fibre, and receiver) of an optical fibre communication system
Characterization/modelling of the basic subsystems
Design considerations and choice of sub-system parameters for a given communication system
Understanding latest developments and modern trends (research areas) in optical communication systems, such as Optical amplifiers, Wavelength Division Multiplexing, etc.

**Course Content:**
Official course content is here https://www.ee.iitb.ac.in/web/academics/courses#EE606

Course content can be broadly divided into the following-

Introduction to fibre optic communication-
Optical Fibres: Ray and mode theories, fibre fabrication, Fibre attenuation, Dispersion
Optical sources
Photo-detectors
LED and LD Transmitters: Design considerations
Fibre Optic receivers: receiver noise, receiver configurations
Digital Link design
Wavelength Division Multiplexing
Optical Amplifiers
Passive Optical Networks
New FO systems: POF, Long haul and very high data rate systems

**Feedback on Lectures:**
Regular attendance
Presentations are never uploaded. You are expected to take down notes. Instead of presentations, professor will upload relevant pages of book for each class. These pages are must read before exams and you are expected to read them before coming to next class.
Participation in the class (asking questions)
Regularly going through the reading material uploaded to Moodle
Studying 3 to 4 review papers (every month) uploaded to Moodle
Attendance is the most critical grade deciding factor in this course. 10 marks are allotted for attendance. You lose one mark for not attending a class. 10 absents gives you zero marks in attendance.

**Feedback on Tutorials, Assignments and Exams:**
Mid sem exam : 25 %
End sem exam (3 hours) : 40 %
FO Lab – 2 Expts (Demo, Viva) : 5%
Attendance : 10 %
Quizzes: 2 : 10 %
Individual presentations : 10 %
Individual presentation is based on the study of a research paper and giving a presentation on that paper. Choice of papers will be provided by professor. It is not time consuming and happens after the end-sem. But professor good overall understanding of the course in the presentation.

Lab was just a 30 minutes demo followed by a Viva some day later.

Hence, it is easy to score in lab and presentation. Deciding factor for grades is your attendance and your end-sem marks.

**Grading Statistics:**
Grading is easy. Efforts required to be attentive in class.

**Difficulty:**
Quite a theoretical course, no mathematics as such. Requires understanding of the fundamentals of the subject. Not tough but requires sincerity in class.

**Study Material and References:**
Gerd Keiser, Optical Fiber Communications, 4th edition/5th edition, Tata McGraw-Hill, India, 2008/2012
John M Senior, Optical Fiber Communications: Principles and Practice, 3rd edition, Pearson Education Ltd., 2009.
Ajoy Ghatak and K.Thyagarajan, Introduction to Fiber Optics, Cambridge University Press, 1999.
Govind P. Agrawal, Fiber optic Communication Systems, 4th edition, John Wiley and sons, New Jersey, 2010.
Papers from Journal of Lightwave Technology (IEEE) and other journals.
