---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---



### EE 706 - Communication Networks



**Course offered in:**



Spring 2016-2017



**Instructor:**



Prof. Sharayu Mohrir



**Motivation:**



Since we spend majority of our free time on the Internet nowadays, it’s only fair to expect that one should understand how it works on a surface level. Studying this course exactly helps you with that. Throughout the course you deal occasionally with structure of Internet, how large networks function, some basic algorithms on communication between server and host and how data routes itself through such a vast network.

The course makes you appreciate how involved and sophisticated procedures are involved in transferring data over the Internet.



**Course Contents:**



* Internet and its Structure (OSI Model)
* Delay, Loss Throughput in Packet Switching Models
* Principles of Reliable Data Transfer (Go-Back-N, Selective Repeat)
* Connection Oriented Transport (TCP)
* Principles of Congestion Control
* Network Layer: The Internet Protocol
* Routing Algorithms, Broadcast and Multicast



**Feedback on Lectures and Tutorials:**



Classes are well structured and the instructor tends to focus more covering a single topic in depth rather covering a breadth of topics in a single lecture. Analysis section of algorithms/protocols requires elementary understanding probability distribution function and is usually very easy to follow. Its also easy to take down notes as the instructor jots down the important bullet points on the board.  

Tutorials were also given



**Exams:**



The exams were the best part of the course, as the questions were very easy to comprehend, straightforward and were meant to check your understanding only. Most of the question can be directly answered by studying the derivations/algorithms taught in the class. The trickier questions require in depth understanding of the material as well as occasionally some mathematical jugglery. Lack of time was never an issue in the exam



**Prerequisites:**



Although basic concepts of EE325 Probability and Random Process are often used in the course, a quick prior revision of the course can help one easily grasp the material taught in the class.



**References:**


* Computer Networking: A Top Down Approach by Kurose and Ross
* Data Networks: Dimitri Bertsekas and Robert Gallagher


**Marking Scheme:**


* 2 Quizzes: 15% each
* Midterm: 30% each
* Final Exams: 40% each
* Extra Credit Assignments: 20%



**Grading Statistics:**


| **AA** | **8**  |
|----|----|
| **AB** | **10** |
| **BB** | **13** |
| **BC** | **11** |
| **CC** | **13** |
| **CD** | **4**  |
| **DD** | **3**  |
| **FR** | **2**  |
|**Total**|	**64**|





**Difficulty Level:**



Moderate