---
layout: page
title: EE 764 - Wireless and mobile communication
subtitle: Durgaprasad Prakash Bhat, 2024(B.Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 764
- **Course Name**: Wireless and mobile communication
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Sibiraj Pillai
- **Prerequisites**: EE 341, EE 229. (EE 708 will help but not necessary)
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 4

### Course Content
Topics: Basic Blocks of communication systems, Basics of Information Theory, Analysis of MIMO systems, OFDM, MIMO-OFDM, MAC, Broadcast Channels, Interference channels, Channel precoding, LDPC coding.

### Feedback on Lectures
Lectures were conducted using Blackboard (no slides) but notes were provided for some lectures. Teaching was pretty good, prof made sure everyone was following along since it was a small class. However across lectures the content seemed a little non-coherent. Regular tutorials were conducted during class hours. Attending lectures is definitely very helpful.

### Feedback on Evaluations
Assignments (2 Written and 1 GNU radio based), Midsem and Endsem were conducted, weightage might vary. 
Multiple optional GNU radio based projects were proposed, each with a fixed max score. Students could attempt as many problem statements and use the score obtained to reduce/waive-off weightage of written exams/assignments
Questions in assignments and Exams were along the lines of the examples covered in class and tutorial questions, with some novelty.

### Study Material and Resources
Fundamentals of Wireless communication (by Tse and Vishwanath) was the primary reference. 
Other books recommended (for isolated topics):
Modern Coding Theory 
Fundamentals of Digital Communication (U Madhow)
Would recommend taking notes in class

### Follow-up Courses
None, this is an advanced course 

### Final Takeaway
It's a good course for someone who is interested learning concepts behind modern day communication. A little bit on the difficult side. Attending lectures and practicing tutorial questions will greatly help. 

