---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle: EE 764 – WIRELESS AND MOBILE COMMUNICATION 2018
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic, Elective]
---

### EE 764 – WIRELESS AND MOBILE COMMUNICATION

**Semester :** Spring 2018

**Instructor :** Prof. Abhay Karandikar *(Not in Institute now, became the director of IIT Kanpur)*

**Motivation :** Understand the technical difficulties observed in wireless and mobile communication and the solutions for the same.

**Course Content :**

- Cellular Overview
- Fading channel and communications over fading
- Diversity
- GSM
- CDMA
- Multi-user Detection
- OFDMA and overview of LTE, LTE-A and 5G
- Multiuser Diversity and Opportunistic Scheduling, Cognitive Radio and TV White Space

**Pre-requisites :** EE 325 and EE 308

**Feedback on lectures :** Since prof was busy with other stuff, there was regular cancelling of classes. However, the lectures were very interesting and to the point (and if you listen well, you will not require any additional study material). Professor also gave examples of the current status of technology (e.g 5G systems). Professor used black board for all the lectures so better take notes and not miss classes.

**Feedback on Assignments, Exams and Project:** Simulation assignments (MATLAB / python) were difficult and required you to think about the methods taught in class in great detail. It was difficult to implement the methods in code but TAs were there to guide you and you were able to write the code down.

No midsem but there was one quiz and endsem. Quiz was easy but Endsem was slightly difficult. It is important to understand the concepts as much as possible as the questions in the endsem were application based which required solid understanding of the concepts.

Project was done in teams of 3 members and you were required to implement the work done in a research paper. You had the freedom to choose the among the list of research paper given by them. It was not so difficult to complete the project. Report file submission and poster presentation was included in the project.

**Grading and Difficulty:** Please refer to ASC. Relative grading, though cut offs were not given.

**Attendance :** Manual attendance was taken. Don’t miss too regularly otherwise professor won’t take any second thought before awarding you DX

**Books :**

- Books by Lee, David Tse and P Vishwanath, Viterbi, Goldsmith, Li, Wu and Laroia, Rappaport

**Reviewed by :** Sahil Chawla ([140070060@iitb.ac.in](mailto:140070060@iitb.ac.in))