---
layout: page
title: EE617-SENSORS IN INSTRUMENTATION 
subtitle: Aryaman Panwar , 2026(Dual Degree)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE617
- **Course Name**: SENSORS IN INSTRUMENTATION 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-'24
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Siddharth tallur
- **Prerequisites**: For Electrical People EE-204 is enough. For others basic analog circuits and should have idea of other things like bode plot, should be more than enough 
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content


The course content is very practical like discussion of different type of sensors like accelerometer l, case study of the prof's latest work in bio sensors and ongoing PhD students project under the professor and include of skills needed for engineers like how to read a datasheet. Overall the course content is really interesting and makes a different perspective on engineering as it will include real life problems.
*Important* in my class there were 25-30 students and only 12 passed whose grades you might see on asc but that is not the case many students got DX grade which is bad. I also took the course because grading is good but the truth is UG students unable to so the project might get DX grade in the end. Take the course at your own risk. It will take a lot of your time.
### Feedback on Lectures


Lectures for my year were held in collaborative classroom so the students were to think and discuss among themselves before answering about the question. Also sir uses videos to give an immersive experience and keep the lecture light and more understanding as introducing the topic.
*Important* - this course will include mandatory lab session of 3 hours Every week and suprise these are not even graded but you cannot miss them if you do, sir will make you do it alone and show it to him. Also: Sir is really strict, one incident: class starts 9.30 and that day 5 students came sir told if 10 students don't come by 9.32 I will cancel the class and he did also  if you are late to the class even 5-10 mins he might not consider your attendance and even ask you to leave the class. 
### Feedback on Evaluations


Course structure is like 20 midsem 40 end sem 40 project. The main point of this course is project and lab session. Your grade apart on evaluation scheme provided heavily dependent on your project.The lab part is till midsem only and the after that you are supposed to work on project, also project has deadlines when you are to show the prof your work and the final project presentation should be really good if the sensor is not fully made the ppt and the work on that should be good.
### Study Material and Resources


Sir used Slides and board, slides were given on Moodle but the content on board if you don't go the class you might miss and that discussion is interesting so recommended to attend every class. You won't need any other material to prepare for the exam sir will provide enough. But the exams will include of some thing or some sensor that won't be discussed in class but your thoughts would be asked on how would you do it.
### Final Takeaway


Sir said in the beginning of course that many students are afraid to try and fail, so this course will challenge you in that and your practice skills.
My 