---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle: EE 625 – BIOSENSORS & BIOMEMS Spring 2015
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic, Elective]

---

**Academic Year –** 2014 – 2015

**Semester –** Spring

**Course Instructor –** Prof. Valipe Ramgopal Rao

**Motivation for this course –**

This course deals with MEMS devices fabrication processes, technology used and their application in Biomedical fields. This is more or less an introductory course with lot of insight into practical aspects of developing a sensor. One will get to know what kind of sensors currently existing in the market and about the upcoming technology as well. If you are curious about how MEMS devices are developed and their practical application, then this is the course for you.

**Pre-requisites –**

This course has a lot of overlap with VLSI Technology (EE669) and would make it easy to grasp content, however there are no hard prerequisites for this course.

**Course Content –**

- MEMS Technology- Fabrication Processes, Structures
- Diagnostics – Point of Care Diagnostics, Sample Preparation,, Molecular recognition
- Therapeutic Applications – Drug discovery, drug screening and Drug delivery: Micro-needles & Micro-reservoirs
- Micro-fluidics – Micro-pumps and micro-valves

**Lectures –**

Lectures were interesting and informative. Lectures were conducted with aid of slides which were provided to students. It was important to attend lectures as lot of questions in exams were directly based on class discussions. There were plenty of guest lectures who shared their research experience in this field.

**Assignments and Tutorials –**

There were no assignments or tutorials however a lot of research papers were shared which provided deeper insight into the subject.

**Exams –**

Exams comprised of 2 quizzes (10% each), midsem(30%) and endsem(50%). Exams were mostly based on lectures slides, research papers and class discussions.

**Difficulty –**

Easy

**Grading –**

Grading was lenient.

| **AA**    | **12** |
| --------- | ------ |
| **AB**    | **11** |
| **AU**    | **9**  |
| **BB**    | **13** |
| **BC**    | **9**  |
| **CC**    | **11** |
| **CD**    | **1**  |
| **FR**    | **4**  |
| **Total** | **70** |

**Study Material and References –** Lecture slides and research papers which were shared by instructors. No specific books were suggested.

Reviewed by **Dheeraj kotagiri <kdhiru1994@gmail.com>**