---
layout: page
title: EE 724 - Nanoelectronics 
subtitle: Hemant Hajare 2025 (Dual Degree)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 724
- **Course Name**: Nanoelectronics 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Udayan Ganguly 
- **Prerequisites**: No hard prerequisites. 
Knowledge from EE207 and PH107 recommended but not compulsory.
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 4

### Course Content
Module 1 : Why do electrons move?
Electrostatics in 2D and 3D
Analytical solution of Laplace equation to determine device profiles


Module 2 : How do electrons move?
Band diagrams
Analysis of band diagrams of P-N devices
Quantum Tunneling


Module 3 : Semi-classical picture of electron
Free electron model and nearly-free electron model
E-k diagram of electron
Solid state simulation for motion of electrons/group of electrons in x-space and k-space


Module 4 : Quasi-fermi level description of transport
Local resistor model
PN junction vs. Schottky Barrier Diode

### Feedback on Lectures
Lectures are very interactive and quite different from a typical course lecture. Professor often asks to discuss a questions posed in class, in pairs so it is good to have a class buddy with good chemistry. Most of the questions asked in the quizzes are based on these discussions. Slides are not self sufficient and are not useful without the context of the lecture. Attendance is, thus, strongly encouraged. It is difficult to make structured notes as most of the class time goes in discussions.
Professor focuses more on intuition over mathematical rigor. Even though mathematical derivations are given in the slides they are not discussed at length in the class and the professor assumes that you will go through them yourselves. Focus is more on the “Engineering” point-of-view rather than the “Physics” point-of-view of devices.


### Feedback on Evaluations
4 Quizzes : 60% (15%+15%+15%+15%)
Quizzes have 2-3 questions based on the slides, class discussions and assignments. Each question has numerous sub-questions which make them lengthy. Questions are direct. It is recommended to attempt all the questions as some credit is given for the attempt.

Assignments : 15% 
There are 4-5 lengthy assignments to be done in groups of 3. Questions involve performing simulations and pen-paper inference. A prior knowledge of MATLAB comes in handy. Assignment solutions are shared after the assignment submission deadline before the quiz. It is strongly recommended to go through the assignment solutions.

Course project : 20%
A number of problem statements are released for the course project. A priority list has to be submitted based on which problem statement is alloted. A PhD/DD mentor is allotted who helps your group (of 3) throughout the project. Projects take considerable time and effort and use of TCAD software, license to which is given by the professor. It is strongly recommended to be very regular in doing the project. It is impossible to complete the project at the last minute as they involve long simulation times and inferences.

Class participation : 5%
Class participation credit is mostly based on attendance and activeness in class discussions.

Note that there is no Mid-semester or End-semester. Quiz 2 and Quiz 4 are held in Mid-semester and End-Semester examination slots.


### Study Material and Resources
Introduction to Electrodynamics by David J. Griffiths
Fundamentals of Modern VLSI Devices by Tak H. Ning and Yuan Taur
Introduction to Solid State Physics by Charles Kittel

### Follow-up Courses
None

### Final Takeaway
This course is nice for someone who is looking to explore device engineering. Being regular in classes and actively participating in class discussions should easily get you a good grade in this course.

