---

layout: page

title: Course Reviews

subtitle:

cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg

thumbnail-img: ""

share-img: ""

comments: true

tags: [Academic]

---

  
  

### CS 754 – ADVANCED IMAGE PROCESSING

  
  

**Course offered in:**

  
  

Spring 2017

  
  

**Instructor:**

  
  

Prof. Ajit Rajwade

  
  

**Course Content:**

  
  

This course was the taught time first this Semester and the professor might change the topics slightly depending on the reviews. The detailed course contents are available on course website. (The link is at the end of review). Broadly, the topics covered are:

Statistics of Natural Images

Denoising in different conditions

Compressive Sensing

Dictionary Learning

Tomographic Reconstruction

The focus is slightly more towards image processing with a perspective of signals as compared to learning based approaches.

  
  

**Prerequisites:**

  
  

The professor strongly recommends one of the following courses as a prerequisite : CC 663, EE 610 or CS 725.

  
  

**Feedback on Lectures:**

  
  
Excellent. Easy to follow. Professor teaches the topics very well and ensures that you understand each topic along with its nuances very well in the class. The slides are comprehensive but it is necessary to pay attention in the class. Often the discussions in the class are helpful.

  
  

**Feedback on Tutorials, Assignments and Exams:**

  
  

The professor intends this to be more project and assignment based course. Hence both the midsem and endsem are of 10 marks and are very straightforward, the questions mostly drawn from slides and class discussions. A major chunk of the weightage (55%) goes to assignments. There were 5 assignments and it takes considerable amount to solve them. They were a mix of coding part and theoretical questions. The questions in the assignment are well chosen and provide a good insight into the covered content. The project is for 25% and highly stressed by the professor. This course is more inclined towards the research side and hence the project is very important. The professor strongly recommends and motivates a well-thought out project and promotes and rewards ingenious ideas and implementations.

  
  

**Difficulty:**

  
  

The course as such is easy to follow and professor makes it comfortable for you. The main stress is on projects and assignments for which there is ample time allotted. Anyone who is enthusiastic to take up a higher level course in Image processing but on a broad scale without going into the specifics of any substream, this is a recommended course. Also it isn’t very intensive as such.


  

**Study Material and References:**

  
  

The slides are comprehensive and contain everything that is required. More details and specifics of certain parts of the course can be found out [here](https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~ajitvr/CS754_Spring2017/).

  

  
  

Review by – Sudeep Salgia










**
