---
layout: page
title: EE 214 - Digital Lab
subtitle: Jatin Singhal, 2026(B.Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 214
- **Course Name**: Digital Lab
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Siddharth Tallur 
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 4

### Course Content
- Using Quartus
- logic gate Implementations
- logic designing using fsm
- FPGA Implementation

### Feedback on Lectures
There were no lectures, but they provided us with DKS sir’s recorded lectures(not compulsory) which were helpful and a must to watch.

### Feedback on Evaluations
There were marks for regular labs, quizzes, midsem and endsem. Also in the end there was an optional project that was only for recognition no marks were involved. But the grading was not good for our batch, 66/216 BC were given🙂‍↕️

### Study Material and Resources
The lab handouts and googling were a way to go for this lab. Also, the parallel running course EE224 theory helps you in understanding the concepts to be used but both courses are badly synced. Also, try to get help from TAs and RAs don't hesitate.

### Follow-up Courses
EE 309 - Microprocessors
EE 224 - Digital Systems

### Final Takeaway
The practical application of this course is a lot if you wanna continue in the microprocessor field. Also, it will help with EE 224 and EE 309 projects. Grading depends on the professor so don’t bother about it too much

