---
layout: page
title: EE224 - Digital Systems
subtitle: Uday Singh
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE224
- **Course Name**: Digital Systems
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-'24
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Virendra Singh
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content


1. Boolean algebra and simple logic gates
2. Binary representation of numbers(1s and 2s complement), KMaps
3. Binary Decision Diagram- Canonical Form of representation
4. Reed Muller Canonical Form
5. Finite State Machine (mealy and moore form) etc
### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures are good, and he generally teaches the same material as in previous years, so you can use notes from past batches. Although I strongly advise taking notes during the lectures since they count for 5% of your grade. He is known for holding extra classes on weekends, so be prepared for that. Additionally, he conducts weekly quizzes, and the questions from these quizzes often appear in the midterm and final exams, so don't miss them.
### Feedback on Evaluations


The evaluations are quite rigorous, to be honest. His TAs tend to give either 0 or full marks for questions, leaving no room for partial credit. Given that the questions require a deep understanding of the concepts, most students end up with low scores. 
However, he is generous with the final grading. If you create a decent project for the course, you're likely to get a high grade despite your low exam scores.
### Study Material and Resources


Digital Design by John F Wakerley and Digital Design by Moris Mano
### Follow-Up Courses


EE 309 - Microprocessors
### Final Takeaway

The course was informative and helps build a strong foundation for EE-309 Microprocessors.