---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle: EE 236 –  Electronic Devices Lab (2023)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Core, Third]
---

**Review by**

Sahil Dharod, 2025(B.Tech)

**Course Offered In**

Autumn 2023

**Instructors**

Prof. Saurabh Lodha and Prof. Apurba Laha

**Prerequisites**

None

**Difficulty**

3/5 (on a scale of 1-5 with 5 being very tough)

**Course Content**

This course goes hand in hand with the theory of semiconductor devices covered in EE 207. The course structure is very similar to Analog Devices Lab (EE 230). We were expected to perform about 10-12 experiments throughout the semester in pairs of two. The experiments revolved around noting and interpreting the I-V characteristics of several types of diodes, solar cell, transistors and C-V/I-V characteristics of MOSFETS. We were expected to draw conclusions from the readings obtained and prepare a lab report in LaTeX for every lab. We also had one simulation exercise using NG Spice to simulate the experiment in advance and note what to expect when the experiment is performed practically.

**Feedback on Lectures**

Before every experiment, one of the professors would explain the theory behind that experiment, and the RAs would be all set to solve any doubts/difficulties you may have while performing the experiment.

**Feedback on Evaluations**

The Grading Scheme was as follows:
1) Experiments - 25%
2) Quiz - 20% (Best of 2)
3) Midsem - 20%
4) Endsem - 35%

The endsem also had a component involving simulation on NGSpice and theory questions along with the main experiment which accounted for roughly 1/3rd of the total endsem weightage. The quizzes were mainly based on the lab handouts and theory covered in EE207 and had 10 Multiple choice/Numerical questions to be solved in 30 minutes. The midsem exam had one question which was slightly difficult and could not be solved by many students while the endsem exam was moderate.

Grading Stats :
AA	11
AB	62
BB	61
BC	47
CC	14
CD	8
DD	9
FR	1

**Study Material and References**

The lab handouts and supplements along with the theory covered in EE 207 are sufficient to follow everything going in the course
 
**Follow-up Courses**

N/A

**Final Takeaway**
In this course all the theory learnt in EE 207 is applied and tested and it was a delight to observe working models of what one has studied in the theory courses, and also to observe the deviations of those devices from ideality.
