---
layout: page
title: EE 230 - Analog Lab 
subtitle: K Ashvanth, 2024 (B.Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 230
- **Course Name**: Analog Lab 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Anil, Prof. Sandip Mondal
- **Prerequisites**: EE 204
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 4

### Course Content
EE 230, Analog Lab, a Core Course in 4th Sem, is basically a continuation course to EE 204, Analog Electronics, another Core Course done in the 3rd Sem.
This course involved performing hands-on experiments based of the topics covered in EE 204. We were required to implement on hardware OpAmp and MOSFET based circuits, and build circuits involving them having different applications. We additionally learnt simulation of such circuits on LTspice as a part of the course.

### Feedback on Lectures
Being a Lab Course, it didn't have any Lectures.
We used to have weekly lab sessions, once every week, where we used to perform the week's task in the Lab. 
(Thursday for the B.Tech Batch)
(Friday for the Dual Batch)

### Feedback on Evaluations
Feedback of the Course was honestly a bit of a mess.

The handouts of the experiment of the week used to be uploaded 3-4 days before the weekly lab. It used to have questions which were to be answered after performing the experiment in the lab. At times it also used to include a homework component at times.
On most weeks, we used to have a Weekly Lab Quiz before the Lab, on Moodle, which had some weightage in the total.

We were required to document the work we had done in our lab notebook, answering the questions given in the handout, and the handout. The Lab Marks also had a weightage in the Final Grade.

Post the lab completion, we were required to make a detailed LaTeX report, documenting our lab work with DSO images and answers. We were given time until before the next lab session to do this. Ofcourse, this also had a weightage to the final grade.

We didn't have any Quizzes (thankfully). We only had a Midsem and an Endsem. 
Both the Midsem and the Endsem were tricky and rigorous, but could be done by anyone who had done his experiments well.

### Study Material and Resources
Notes of EE 204, and additionally the Lab Handouts provided are sufficient sources to excel in the Course.
The Instructors used to upload additional material at times, which could also be referred to by the students.

### Follow-up Courses
nan

### Final Takeaway
I would say that despite being a 3-credit course, the way this Course is operated means that it entails efforts way more than that a normal Lab Course asks for.
Having to make a LaTeX report for the Previous Lab, go through the Handout and complete the homework of the next lab was too much work, and add to it that the experiments used to be rather lengthy, barely getting completed in time.
However that's how it is I suppose, being a Core Course, it is compulsory and we just have to accept it how it is.
As a solace however, being regular with the course means that you can get an AA rather easily, as the Profs. do grade leniently (neither too many AAs nor too less).

