---
layout: page
title: EE 302 - Controls Systems
subtitle: Kushal Jain, 2026(B. Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 302
- **Course Name**: Controls Systems
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Harish Pillai
- **Prerequisites**: None except some basics of Signal Processing are required.
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content
Basics: Modelling circuits using graph theory, Incidence and Loop Matrices, Force-Current and Force-Voltage analogies, Laplace transforms, impulse response

Analysis of linear first and second order systems, Rise Time, Settling Time, Peak time, Percentage overshoot.

State space representation of systems, signal flow graphs, Mason's Rule.

Feedback and stability for open and closed loop systems. Routh- Hurwitz Criterion. Measurement of steady state errors. 

Stability analysis using Root Locus techniques, PI, PD controllers, lead and lag compensators, frequency response techniques i.e Nyquist and Bode Plots, Phase and Gain Margin and Modern Control Theory.

### Feedback on Lectures
The lectures were fairly well-organised and professor taught the content well. The professor taught on blackboard and was open to doubts during the class. The content covered during the lectures was almost entirely from the reference book and in the same order as the book, which made it quite easy to follow in class and keep up on the syllabus. The professor can at times go fast with concepts due to the vast nature of the syllabus, so it is advisable to pay apt attention. 

### Feedback on Evaluations
Assignments(10%)  Quizzes(10%)  Midsem(30%)  Endsem(50%)


For all the evaluations, following lectures and doing problems from the reference book were more than enough as all of them depended on the book. The assignments were fairly easy however quite lengthy especially towards the end. Around 4-5 days' time was given to complete each assignment. 3 quizzes were conducted in the sem, all of them required only application of the concepts. 

The midsem and endsem were also application of the basic concepts and assignments and nothing too hard. However they were lengthy and pretty hard to finish in time. Overall all the evaluations had roughly the same difficulty level and were easy if one studied from the reference book. 

### Study Material and Resources
Control Systems Engineering by Norman S. Nise is the Bible for this course.

### Follow-up Courses
EE613: Nonlinear Dynamical Systems goes into control theory for nonlinear systems.
EE636: Matrix Computations is a good follow-up if one wishes to explore in depth the linear algebra aspects of control theory. 

### Final Takeaway
Overall a good course which opens up a plethora of advanced courses in control theory. Somewhat heavy due to the accumulation of a large number of concepts. Unadvisable to sleep on this course as it will become too much to understand later.

