---
layout: page
title: EE341-Communication Systems - I
subtitle: Bhavya Singh, 2025 (DD)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE341
- **Course Name**: Communication Systems - I
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn Semester
- **Instructors**: Gaurav S Kasbekar
- **Prerequisites**: A basic Signal Processing course (like EE229)
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 3

### Course Content


1. Review of signals and systems, Fourier transform, and random processes
2. Lowpass representation of bandpass signals and systems: downconversion and upconversion, lowpass representation of bandpass systems
3. Analog modulation techniques: Amplitude modulation, DSB, SSB, VSB modulations, Angle modulation: FM and PM
4. Sampling, quantization and pulse modulation: Sampling and pulse amplitude modulation, PCM and DPCM, Delta modulation, scalar and vector quantization
5. Overview of multiplexing and multiple access techniques: TDM(A), CDMA, FDM and OFDM(A)
6. Digital modulation techniques: Basics of PSK, ASK, FSK, QAM; ML demodulator implementation with matched filter, decision regions and probability of error analysis
7. Digital communication over bandlimited channels: Intersymbol interference, Nyquist criterion for ISI-free pulse, raised cosine pulse, ML sequence detection for bandlimited channels
8. Optional topics: Hardware / Software Radio demos, PLL and Synchronization

### Feedback on Lectures


Lectures can feel like they're going on a slow pace. The instructor focuses on students' clarity on the topic and entertains all doubts without any issues. 
### Feedback on Evaluations


We had three quizzes, one mid-semester exam, and one end-semester exam. The questions cannot be solved with the class theory alone within the stipulated time, it is advised to do practice problems beforehand. 

Marking schemes are lenient and grading was average, with half the students receiving BB or above. 
### Study Material and Resources


Lecture slides cover the theory well. The professor provides topic related questions almost weekly which can be used for practice. Previous year papers are also a good resource.

Communication Systems by Simon Haykin is a good external resource.