---
layout: page
title: MA207-Differential Equations-II
subtitle: Manan Garg, 2025(BTech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: MA207
- **Course Name**: Differential Equations-II
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn semester
- **Instructors**: Harsha Hutridurga Ramaiah
- **Prerequisites**: DIfferential Equations - I
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 4

### Course Content


Intro to Power series, and power series as solutions to ODEs. Some common ODE's and their solutions: Legendre equations (Legendre Polynomials), Bessel equation. Frobenius method. Fourier series. Laplace transforms
Some common physics DEs and their solutions: Wave, Heat using variable separation method
### Feedback on Lectures


Like some other courses, this suffers from the fact that slides contain most of the information that you need, so the lecture itself may feel unneeded except for doubts. The instructor moves at a comfortable pace, and I suggest at least keeping up with the class to ensure you ask doubts when you have to. Definitely do the tuts on time and exams will be a lot easier.
### Feedback on Evaluations


Not much to say here. Papers were medium lengthwise but getting to solutions can be hard. I suggest practice as much as possible beforehand, which is why it's perferable to keep up with the course during the semester.
### Follow-up Courses


This is a basic enough course that other courses will assume knowlegde from it.