---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle: CS 213 – DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS(2012-2013)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic, Minor, Second]
---

### CS 213 – DATA STRUCTURES & ALGORITHMS

**Course Name**

Data Structures and Algorithms (Minor)

**Year for which the review is written**

2012 – 2013 Autumn

**Professor who took the course**

A A Diwan

**Motivation behind the course**

Introduce the student to the concept of data structures through abstract data structures including lists, sorted lists, stacks, queues, sets/maps, directed acyclic graphs, and graphs; and implementations including the use of linked lists, arrays, binary search trees, hash tables, complete trees, and adjacency matrices and lists.

Introduce the student to algorithms design including greedy, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming; and specific algorithms including, for example, balancing search trees, shortest path, and spanning trees.



**Course Content**

1.Asymptotic and Algorithm Analysis, Properties of data
2.Abstract Lists and Implementations, Linked lists and arrays
3.Stacks, Queues, binary trees, Binary search trees and tree traversals
4.Abstract Priority Queues, Heaps
5.Graph and Direct Acyclic Graph Algorithms
6.Minimum spanning trees, Shortest path
7.Divide-and-conquer algorithms
8.Dynamic programming
9.Example of an advanced data structure

**Pre requisites**

CS101- Computer Programming and Utilization

**Feedback on lectures**

Very interesting lectures. The professor used to give a problem in the beginning of the lectures and develop concepts to solve that problem. Till the end of the lectures we used to know enough to solve that problem on our own.

**Feedback on tutorials, assignments and exams**

No formal tutorial sessions but professor used to give problems for homework. Two C++ based programming assignments were given during the course. Problems in the exams used to be a bit difficult. Most exams were low scoring for most of the students.

**Difficulty level**

Difficult

**Grading**

Moderately Tough


**Study Material and References** 

No textbook was followed but there was a suggested reference book (Introduction to Algorithms, Thomas H. Cormen). Professor used to write on Black Board so no moodle upload of lectures.

**Advanced courses that can be taken after this course**

CS218 – Design and Analysis of Algorithms

**Application of course in other courses and practice**
Huge application of this course exist in many fields. This course allows you to develop an algorithmic way to approach different problems and find efficient solutions.