---
layout: page
title: CS475 (Ugs) or CS675(PGs)-Computer Graphics 
subtitle: Hastyn Doshi, 2024(Btech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: CS475 (Ugs) or CS675(PGs)
- **Course Name**: Computer Graphics 
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn Semester (2022)
- **Instructors**: Parag Chaudhuri
- **Prerequisites**: DSA - CS213/CS213M
Apart from that
- Knowledge of C/C++ Programming is strongly recommended.
- Knowledge of basic Linear Algebra is desirable.
- Knowledge of data structures and algorithms is desirable.
- Learn how to use git.
- Make sure you have a GitHub id. You will need it for the course.

- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 4

### Course Content


The course covers all algorithms involved in the three parts of computer graphics,
- Modelling - Creating the synthetic virtual world by creating and placing the objects and the camera. This involves modelling transformations and viewing transformations 
- Rendering - Drawing the synthetic world, this involves understanding shading, lighting models, texture maps and the course also covers ray tracing 
- Animation - Moving the synthetic world, involves using interpolation to create intermediate frames

### Feedback on Lectures


Lectures are good, professor teaches with enthusiasm trying to keep audience interested by posing intriguing questions from time to time which help in understanding (and are also sometimes asked in exams). Tutorials on openGL for the coding assignments are also taken to help with understanding the code structure 
### Feedback on Evaluations


Evaluations are strict for the assignments as well as the exams. There is heavy penalty in the assignments for any deviation from the submission structure or any delays in the submission so make sure to submit on time and start well before the deadline. Exams are also on the tougher side with theoretical questions and a large deduction in makes for mistakes in the answers.
### Study Material and Resources


https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~paragc/course/2022-02-cs475/
### Follow-up Courses


CS 775
### Final Takeaway


The course is a bit loaded with heavy assignments in C++ (openGL). You must start the assignments well before the deadline to ensure you have enough time to finish them. The assignments also take a lot of time but the end result is satisfying as you get to create your own movie. Take the course if you find the contents interesting, have experience in coding assignments and have some amount of time to enjoy the assignments