---
layout: page
title: CS475-Computer Graphics
subtitle: Neeraj Jadhav, 2024(B. Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: CS475
- **Course Name**: Computer Graphics
- **Course Offered In**: 2022-23, Autumn
- **Instructors**: Parag Chaudhuri
- **Prerequisites**: CS213 (or an equivalent DSA course, a soft pre-req)
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 3

### Course Content


Course starts off with basic principles of geometry and applications of it in CG. Then, OpenGL API is introduced to kick start the assignments (usually 3) which run parallely with theory. The content is easy as compared to other courses since it consists mostly of high school maths. The course touches only upon the software side of CG.

Introduction: Rasterization basics, OpenGL API; Geometry: Pinhole Camera, Clipping and 2D-3D Transformations, Viewing Transformations; Visualizations: Modeling Viewing Pipeline, Visibility; 'Actual' Graphics: Hierarchical Modeling, Rendering, Texture Mapping, Modeling Curves - Splines, Animation

All of this is available on his website too (use LDAP)
https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~paragc/course/2022-02-cs475/

### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures happen offline where the prof goes through the slides and explains every tiniest bit with examples. He is quite interested in students' learning. Asking doubts is encouraged (this carries 5% weightage too, as an attendance metric). There are fun-filled discussions in the classes eg. science behind some popular illusions, etc. It is recommended to attend the lectures and ask doubts to gain really practical knowledge of this subject.
### Feedback on Evaluations


Evaluation is based upon 3 assignments carrying 45% of the total weightage. The rest is distributed over 2 quizzes, midsem and endsem. Papers are of moderate difficulty level and consist of new questions which require thinking on the spot.
Assignments are to done in pairs and require a huge time dedication like 20ish hours per teammate and the deadlines are strict. All of this said, they are actually fun to do and you'll learn a lot on the way and be proud of yourself at the end of 3rd one.

The grading is moderate 15-20% AAs + ABs. Doing the assignments well, going through sample questions and asking doubts (not equivalent to just attending lectures :P) can easily fetch you an AB+ grade.
### Study Material and Resources


https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~paragc/course/2022-02-cs475/

### Follow-up Courses


CS675 - Advanced Graphics, RnD with the prof, CS763 - Computer Vision