---
layout: page
title: CS6001 - Game Theory and Mechanism Design 
subtitle: Aditya Vema Reddy Kesari, 2027(Dual)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: CS6001
- **Course Name**: Game Theory and Mechanism Design 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Swaprava Nath
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content
This course deals with topics at the interface of Economics and Computer Science. The focus will be more on the applications of game theory in social decision making. For example, how online advertising slots are allocated among competing advertisers or how the mobile telephony spectrum is distributed among the competing service providers such that certain “good” and “fair” properties are satisfied. Problems of similar flavor exist in many more applications like crowdsourcing, internet routing, fair division of goods, matching of students to advisors, facility location, social networks and many more. To understand these applications and to improve them, technology needs to partner with economic principles that drive them. This course is aimed to develop those economic principles. 

### Feedback on Lectures
The lectures are well structured and none of the lectures are cramped, not even towards the end. You will enjoy giving the quizzes, midsems and endsems as they are mainly puzzles and intuitive questions. 

### Feedback on Evaluations
The evaluations are reasonable and the questions usually involve thinking out of the box as all the exams are open book.

### Study Material and Resources
Video lectures of all lectures are available on the website of CS6001. 

### Follow-up Courses
CS6002

### Final Takeaway
Interesting course with reasonable grading.

