---
layout: page
title: CS 754 - Advanced Image Processing 
subtitle: Aditya Sriram, 2024 (B. Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: CS 754
- **Course Name**: Advanced Image Processing 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Ajit Rajwade
- **Prerequisites**: EE 229 and EE 325 are hard prerequisites, while CS 663 is a soft prerequisite (the instructor says it’s better to have done CS 663, but CS 754 has a completely tangential syllabus and the instructor will provide slides/resources on background topics covered in CS 663)
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content
Compressed Sensing (algorithms included), Compressive Imaging Systems, Pooled Testing for RT-PCR, Tomography, Dictionary Learning, Low Rank Matrix Recovery, Statistics of Natural Images (in brief); for a more extensive content, please refer to the instructor’s website (https://www.cse.iitb.ac.in/~ajitvr/CS754_Spring2024/)

### Feedback on Lectures
The lectures are concise (yet descriptive), very easy to follow, and the instructor does his best to make them as interactive as possible. He uses slides as a reference, but also offers additional insights that are useful in solving the homework assignments. At the same time, these are not completely necessary if you have a good background in signal processing and probability (true for many 4th year students who have done other advanced courses), but if there is any sliver of doubt in your mind, pay attention in class! 
The first few weeks of classes are especially important because they cover concepts that will be used throughout later stages of the course (it is very easy to fall behind). However, if you are regular, the course is a breeze.

### Feedback on Evaluations
The grading scheme is as follows:
Midsem: 10%
Endsem (cumulative): 15%
Homework Assignments (5-7): 50%
Project (presentation + individual viva on course content): 25%

The assignments and projects are to be done in groups. Paper evaluation is fair and any discrepancies in checking are handled directly by the instructor. Questions are not difficult and can be answered with a little thought, provided you have followed the lecture content.     Homework assignments are more difficult and generally lengthy (hence the group effort). However, the instructor provides hints for the tougher questions and makes himself available for doubts. 

### Study Material and Resources
The instructor’s slides are more than enough. References to papers are included, but are optional.

### Follow-up Courses
None. 

### Final Takeaway
CS 754 is a good introduction to compressed sensing. The instructor tries to give intuitive explanations for concepts. Explanations are not particularly rigorous (although enough resources are provided for the maths-inclined). The course also offers a good opportunity to students who are interested in working with the instructor.

