---
layout: page
title: HS 207 -Social Psychology (2023) 
subtitle: Kimaya Shikarkhane, 2024(Dual Degree)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: HS 207 
- **Course Name**: Social Psychology (2023) 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-'24
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Mrinmoyi Kulkarni
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 2

### Course Content


A rough list of contents:-
1. Social Perception
2. Social Cognition
3. Schemas
4. Self
5. Cognitive Dissonance
6. Attitudes
7. Groups
8. Social Influence
9. Prejudice
10. Aggression
11. Prosocial Behavior

These were the topics the professor completed during our semester.

In my time this course had to be pre-registered a minor.
### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures are really fun. The lectures slides have the outline of each topic, but the professors gives examples and explanations during the lectures. So taking notes helps.
### Feedback on Evaluations


10% - Paper presentation
10% - Class Assignment (we had to watch a movie and write about the social psychology constructs shown in the movie)
10% - Class Participation (the professor herself is very interactive, does not take much effort)
35% - Midsem (Subjective type)
35% - Endsem (Objective type)
### Study Material and Resources


Social Psychology : Baron, Robert A., Byrne, Donn 
But the lecture slides and notes are enough
### Final Takeaway


I personally found the content to be very interesting. The topics are discussed in such a manner such that it makes you more aware about your own and other people's behavior.