---
layout: page
title: HS307-Sociology
subtitle: V L Pravallika, 2024(B.Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: HS307
- **Course Name**: Sociology
- **Course Offered In**: Semester 5
- **Instructors**: Kushal deb
- **Prerequisites**: HS101
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 4

### Course Content


Marxism, other sociological perspectives, consumerism, Sociology in India, Gandhi ideology, Nehru ideology, Swaraj, etc.
### Feedback on Lectures


Should attend all lecs, overview is given by professor. Doubts should be asked in class to get a clearer understanding of convoluted sociology. Ideologies have many similarities and differences to be noted. Going along with course content and not right before exams helps complete the full readings unsummarized and ace papers.
### Feedback on Evaluations


Objective, tricky questions, solvable if you read all content given or taught by prof.
### Study Material and Resources


Make notes while class is ongoing. Read up the snippets of books recommended to be read by Prof. Ask the prof if extra reading is required. Multiple books have been covered in course.
### Follow-up Courses


None
### Final Takeaway


Make regular effort. Take this course if you like understanding how societies work, large scale by individual ideologies. You will understand glorification made by people, the sway and impact created due to that. Some verbatim sentences proclaimed by great leaders in the past are very shocking and offensive to today's youth. You will need to understand the timeline to be more accepting of their thoughts and support they received. It will give you insights about today's life, the consumerism, how it developed and flourished. The course will overall increase your understanding of the world on a large scale.