---
layout: page
title: HS305-Reading Literature
subtitle: Bhavya Singh, 2025 (DD)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: HS305
- **Course Name**: Reading Literature
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn Semester
- **Instructors**: Sharmila, Suddhaseel Sen
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 4

### Course Content


Pieces of classic and modern literature and the analysis of their content and relevance.
### Feedback on Lectures


The professors are engaging and appreciate participation from the students. They pose questions to spark discussion and invite questions and insights from students. You are expected to do the assigned reading before the lecture, else the discussion becomes difficult to follow.
### Feedback on Evaluations


We had one essay assignment, one mid-semester exam, and one end-semester exam. Evaluations are fair if one has attended all lectures and followed the discussion. 

Grading was okay, with 65% of the students receiving a BB or above.
### Study Material and Resources


Reading material is provided by the professors themselves. Lectures are a must for passing this course. The topics of discussion in the classroom form the blueprint for the evaluations. Taking notes can help to revise the main points of class discussion before the exam.
### Final Takeaway


This is a fun course if you like reading and taking a moment to consider what goes on between the lines. You have to be consistent with the lectures or it can be easy to fall behind. The professors are very friendly and will engage discussions outside of class too if the students show further interest, so this can be a very positive experience for many.