---
layout: page
title: HS472-Psychology of Health
subtitle: Kartik Chikkanagoudar, 2026(DD)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: HS472
- **Course Name**: Psychology of Health
- **Course Offered In**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Mrinmoyi Kulkarni
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 2

### Course Content


A rough list of contents : –
1. Health aspects related to personality
2. Effect of one’s environment on health.
3. Effect of discrimination on health
4. Eating (Effect of diet and eating habits)
5. Stress and Psycho-somatic disorders
6. Tobacco and Smoking
7. Behaviour change (Drug addiction and rehabilitation, Alcoholism and substance abuse)
8. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)
9. Alcohol
10. Gender differences in health
11. Framing health messages
12. Emotion and health

### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures are interesting and attending them is highly useful. The lectures involve quite a bit of participation from students as well. Although the instructor uses slides, they are just an outline of the lecture content, while all the details are discussed during the lectures and hence, taking down notes is recommended.
### Feedback on Evaluations


The course consists of an assignment where one has to submit a proposal for a product which would solve/improve a health related problem in the society.
Apart from that, students have to present a research paper on a relevant topic to the class. This can be done in a group of two, and a few topics are floated by the instructor. There are no quizzes. The midsem is subjective (long answer type), while the endsem is objective. The questions asked in both exams are based majorly on the lecture discussions.
### Study Material and Resources


Health psychology by Marks.
### Follow-up Courses


HS485
### Final Takeaway


This course covers a broad study of different psychological and socio-economic aspects affecting one’s health, and hence is quite interesting and practical as well.