---
layout: page
title: IE503-Operations Analysis
subtitle: Kartik Chikkanagoudar
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: IE503
- **Course Name**: Operations Analysis
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn(Odd)
- **Instructors**: Narayan Rangaraj
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 1

### Course Content


The aim of the course is to familiarize students with supply chain system and issues therein; and equip with techniques to model some specific operational issues in such systems. Part 1: Stages of manufacturing supply chain and value addition. Concepts of supply, storage, production, warehousing and transport. Supply chain terminology. Structure of supply chains, decisions and decision levels in supply chain. Overview of supply chain operations & costs: location, procurement, production, inventory, transportation, and information technology. Material flow systems: push, pull, flow shop, job shop, cell, etc Part 2: Quantitative models in supply chain systems including forecasting, production planning, scheduling and inventory models. Basic forecasting models. Product structure representation. Bill of materials. Material accounting logic and MRP systems. Scheduling and sequencing of parts: single/two machine. Notion of quality & quality control. Quality and yield of manufacturing processes. Inventory models: EOQ, periodic review, continuous review. Introduction to procurement and distribution models. Transport & logistics costs. Project management techniques: CPM and PERT
### Feedback on Lectures


Prof recorded lectures, 1/2 theory and other half problems, examples covered depth an there were additional tutorial, but lectures go a little slow
### Feedback on Evaluations


2 best out of 3 quizzes, midsem, out chill grading, minor students' grading isn't that good
### Study Material and Resources


Prof send relevant links, MIT Opencourse, slides and tutorials were sufficient
### Follow-up Courses


IE714
### Final Takeaway


Serves as a good start for a minor, the course has pure mathematics, and easy math, and the course content and problems were real-world and understandable which makes it interesting,  most problems were related to industrial planning, prof took good insights into the practical learning