---
layout: page
title: SC 646-Distributed Optimization and Machine Learning
subtitle: Siddharth Anand, 2025(Dual Degree)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: SC 646
- **Course Name**: Distributed Optimization and Machine Learning
- **Course Offered In**: 2022-'23
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Mayank Baranwal
- **Prerequisites**: Proficiency in Systems Theory at the level of SC625/SC301 or equivalent, as recommended by the Syscon department. Familiarity with EE302 is sufficient for preparation, as suggested based on experience.
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content


Content :
Review of convex optimization:

Properties of convex functions
Iterative algorithms for constrained and unconstrained optimization
First and second-order methods
Dynamical systems viewpoint

Review of control theory:
Lyapunov theory
Single and double-integrator systems

Review of graph theory:
Elements of graph theory
Network topology
Multi-agent systems

Distributed optimization problem:
Problem formulation
Distributed consensus
Algorithms for distributed optimization
Dynamical Systems viewpoint
Robustness

Applications:
Distributed economic dispatch
Distributed control of UAVs

Machine learning:
Distributed clustering
Distributed training of neural networks
Federated learning
### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures were excellent, characterized by the professor's engaging and interactive board-style teaching approach. Encouraging questions and discussions, the professor adeptly covered the entire course content. Homework problems were thoughtfully designed as an extension of class concepts. Additionally, the professor's consideration for a brief break during the 90-minute lectures was appreciated, adding to the overall positive experience of the sessions.
### Feedback on Evaluations


The course comprised three homework assignments and a single end-of-term examination. Homework tasks typically expanded upon or applied the material covered in class. Originally intended as a viva-style assessment, the final evaluation was modified to an hour-long exam due to the large class size. The exam questions closely resembled the interactive nature of a viva session and focused on topics discussed in the lectures.