---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### EE 324 – CONTROL SYSTEMS LAB
**Course offered in:**

Spring 2021 <br>

**Instructors:**

Prof Madhu Belur, Prof Debasattam Pal <br>

**Course Content:**

The major topics that were covered in this lab are as follows: <br>
1. Time domain and Laplace domain analysis of control systems <br>
2. Block diagram reduction <br>
3. Stability analysis of systems using Routh Herwitz table, Root Locus, Bode Plots, Nyquist Plots <br>
4. Controller design using standard techniques <br>
5. State space realization of control systems <br>

Regular labwork involved extensive usage of Scilab or MATLAB to design control systems. Lab tasks required designing control systems, and hence were carried out in the aforementioned simulation framework. <br>

**Prerequisites:**

The Control Systems theory course (EE 302) is a pre-requisite for the lab as generally the topics that were covered in theory were taken up in the lab. As per new curriculum, the theory course is supposed to be completed before the commencement of the lab and hence it forms a pre-requisite. <br>

**Feedback on Lectures:**

Generally the lab sheets were given a week prior to the actual lab session. The sheets had to be solved and the simulation results were to be compiled and submitted in a report before the corresponding lab. During the hours allotted for the lab, TAs assigned to batches used to conduct roughly 10 minutes viva, individually, based on the report to cross-check our concepts. A few days before report submission, there used to be a doubt session where TAs would clarify doubts pertaining to the respective lab sheet. <br>

**Feedback on Tutorials, Assignments and Exams:**

The lab sheets were mostly doable, although sometimes they were a bit repetitive and time consuming. Regards to examinations, there was only an endsem which involved using Scilab/MATLAB to solve fairly easy questions within the given timeframe. <br>

**Difficulty:**

Easy to Moderate <br>

**Grading Statistics:**


**Study Material and References:**

Reference: “Control Systems Engineering” by Norman S Nise <br>

The same reference had been used for the Control Systems theory course, and encompassed all the concepts required to solve the lab sheets. <br>

**Comments:**

Prior knowledge of Scilab/MATLAB helps a lot else a lot of time is devoted to searching up commands to write the code for the simulation. Coming to rigour, since this course entailed weekly lab reports it was indeed a bit hectic as we always had to stay on our toes with respect to lab work and report deadlines. <br>

Review by – Archishman Saha (archishman.saha@gmail.com) <br>

**Sponsored Content**