---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### HS 305 – READING LITERATURE (2021)
**Course offered in:**

Autumn 2021 <br>

**Instructors:**

Prof. Paulomi Chakraborty, Prof. Ratheesh Radhakrishnan, Prof. Sudha Shastri <br>

**Prerequisites:**

None that I know of, but being fluent in English definitely helps. <br>

**Difficulty:**

Easy(2/5) <br>

Course Content:  <br>

Prof Paulomi:  <br>
Arthur Conan Doyle – The Sign of Four, Adventure of the speckled band <br>
Suniti Namajoshi – The Princess <br>
Nadine Gordimer – Once upon a time <br>
Susan Sontag – excerpts from AIDS and Its Metaphors(Chapters 1, 2, 5 and 8)  <br>

Mahmoud Darwish – A River Dies of Thirst: Journals <br>
Evan Boland – In a Time of Violence(1994) <br>

Prof Ratheesh:  <br>
Mary Oliver – Breakage, Angels, Wild Geese <br>
Muhammad Basheer – walls <br>
Kuzhali Manickavel – Items that have gone missing from the Lucy Tumerlin Institute for broken shape shifters containment room <br>
Charlotte Perkins Gilman – Yellow Wallpaper  <br>

Catherine Malibu – To quarantine from quarantine <br>

Prof Shastri:  <br>
Poems by: John Keats, Lewis Carroll, Robert Browning, Ted Huges <br>
excerpts from The Tempest <br>
While this might seem like a lot, since there was no midsem/endsem, for someone who just wants to complete the course, reading the content relevant to the questions asked in the assignments should suffice. <br>

Feedback on Lectures (Online): <br>

Profs expected the students to be interactive; to do some self-reading of the content in advance and add their own interpretations during class. The attendance dwindled to a handful of students towards the end. <br>

Feedback on Evaluations: <br>

Evaluations were based on 8 assignments each having 2/3 questions on the assigned literature. The word limit for each question was ~ 300 words. We were given about a week to solve each assignment. Spelling mistakes and grammatical errors were penalised. No Midsem! No Endsem! <br>

Study Material: <br>

PDFs of the texts mentioned above, which were provided by the Profs <br>

**Follow up courses:**

<!-- ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ <br> -->

**Final Takeaways:**

The assignment-based evaluation meant that the course required some attention during the semester but kept you free in the Midsem and Endsem weeks. <br>

Review by: Darin Jeff, 2023 (BTech) <br>

**Sponsored Content**