---
layout: page
title: EE 610-Image Processing
subtitle: Jahnvi Rohela, 2025 (DD)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 610
- **Course Name**: Image Processing
- **Course Offered In**: Autumn 2022
- **Instructors**: Prof. Amit Sethi
- **Prerequisites**: There were no hard pre-requisites for the course, but knowledge of some concepts from Signal Processing (EE229) and Probability (EE325) was necessary for good understanding. 
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 3

### Course Content


The course briefly covered the following topics:
- Introduction to imaging
- Intensity transforms
- Spatial and frequency filtering
- Image restoration
- Wavelet analysis of images
- Colour image processing
- Image compression
- Morphological operations
- Image segmentation

### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures covered many important topics but did not go deep into the theoretical aspect of concepts and talked more about application, so there might be a little difficulty in fully understanding some topics. But one could always read the reference book for better understanding. Attending the lectures was sufficient for scoring a decent grade as exams were mainly application-oriented. The professor also held doubt-solving sessions for assignments and before exams too.
### Feedback on Evaluations


The following evaluation scheme was followed:

| Types               | Points | Quantity | Total |
|---------------------|--------|----------|-------|
| Notes Submission    | 1      | 11       | 11    |
| Class Participation | 0.25   | 28       | 7     |
| Assignments         | 7      | 5        | 35    |
| Midsem Exam         | 20     | 1        | 20    |
| Endsem Exam         | 30     | 1        | 30    |

- The class notes were expected to be submitted after every lecture within 2 days of the lecture. 
- The class participation marks were given based on a few discussions and tutorial solving that was conducted before exams. 
- There were 4 assignments throughout the semester, with the first one being an introduction to python for image processing. The next three assignments were based on the understanding and application of concepts taught in lectures, and required some time and effort to be completed. The first two assignments were to be completed individually, however there was an option to do the next two assignments in groups of two or individually.
- The mid-sem and end-sem exams had some bonus portion too

### Study Material and Resources


Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard E. Woods - Digital Image Processing (2008, Prentice Hall)
### Follow-up Courses


Advanced Image Processing (CS 754), Computer Vision (CS 763)
### Final Takeaway


Attending lectures and studying for exams did not require a lot of effort but the assignments were a little time consuming. Absolute grading was followed:
AA -  90+, AB -  80+, BB -  70+, BC -  60+, CC -  50+, CD -  40+ and DD -  30+
