---
layout: page
title: Course Reviews
subtitle:
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### EE 678 – WAVELETS

**Instructor:** 

Prof. Vikram Gadre

**Course Offered In:**

Spring 2020

**Prerequisites:** EE 210

**Course content and structure:**

1) Introduction to Multiresolution Analysis (MRA), Haar scaling function, Haar wavelet, Filter banks
2) Conditions for perfect reconstruction in a filter bank
3) Daubechies’ family of orthogonal wavelets
4) Vanishing moments and regularity Conjugate Quadrature Filter Banks (CQF) and their design
5) Time-bandwidth product and its properties, Uncertainty principle of Signal Processing
6) The Continuous Wavelet Transform (CWT)
7) Journey from the CWT to the DWT: Discretization in steps
8) Axioms of MRA, Proof of Theorem of MRA
9) JPEG-2000, The wave packet transform

**Feedback on lectures:**

Attending the lectures is useful and sufficient to ace the course. The instructor uses the board and hence taking down notes is necessary. The lectures are well paced with the instructor going forward only when most of the class understands what is taught. A lot of examples are discussed in the class for better understanding. Also, the instructor floats Challenges during the lectures, and students are awarded credit for posting solutions on Moodle. Attendance is compulsory as a roll call is conducted at the end of every lecture. Students are supposed to keep a track of their own attendance, and present it during the exams.

**Feedback on tutorials and exams:**

The grading is divided into saturated and unsaturated scores. Students are given the better of the grades awarded through saturated and unsaturated scores. Saturated score majorly includes midsem, endsem and course project. Unsaturated score will majorly consist of class participation marks. Tutorials have some challenging problems. Solving them and posting on moodle earns you class participation marks. Exams are on the easier side with most of the questions either similar to the ones discussed in the class or present in the tutorials.

**Difficulty** (on a scale of 1 being very easy to 5 being very hard): 1

**Textbooks & References:** 

The instructor provides a large number of references at the start of the course. However, the lecture notes are sufficient.

**Grading Statistics:** 

Available on asc. The instructor is generally lenient with grading with many people getting AB and BB. However, getting an AA might require some extra effort.

**Additional comments & what you learnt from the course:** 

The course is good to understand how time limited signals can be approximately bandlimited and thus transmitted in practical systems.

Review by – Ameya Anjarlekar (ameyanjarlekar@gmail.com)

