---
layout: page
title: EE719-Mixed Signal IC design
subtitle: Tanmay Joshi, 2024(B. Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE719
- **Course Name**: Mixed Signal IC design
- **Course Offered In**: 2022-'23
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof Rajesh Zele
- **Prerequisites**: EE618
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 4

### Course Content


The course covered topics all the way from Analog to Digital signal conversion, Fourier transform and Laplace transform basics, Basic ADC Design, non-idealities in design, basic DAC designs, and built up to progressively more complex designs. The content was fascinating and the course painted a complete picture of a variety of ADCs and DACs by piecing together smaller elements with known functionality. 
### Feedback on Lectures


Prof Rajesh Zele taught this course. The teaching was really good and lectures were easy to comprehend if regularly attended. Blackboard and slides were both used for teaching. Discussions and questions were encouraged. 
### Feedback on Evaluations


Evaluation consisted of one midsem, one endsem, one project along with quizzes in every lecture at the beginning. The midsem and endsem exams were not difficult, but the quizzes were only for 5 minutes and it was ot difficult to miss one completely if not on exact time. The project was conducted on Cadence Virtuoso, and user IDs were provided for each student to log in, along with windows for working. Prior familiarity is not expected, and an introductory assignment was release to get to know Cadence. The Project comprised of 4 parts and consisted of building a 6-bit flash ADC.

### Final Takeaway


This course had a majority of M Tech students registered for it, who might have had an upper hand given their familiarity with EE618 which EE Thirdies cannot take since it clashes with a core course. EE618 is a prerequisite as well, albeit not a hard one. Nevertheless, this is the perfect course to explore how mixed-signal systems are built and how conversions are carried out between Analog and Digital signals. 
