---
layout: page
title: EE 613-Nonlinear Dynamical Systems
subtitle: Adityaya Dhande, 2025(B. Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 613
- **Course Name**: Nonlinear Dynamical Systems
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-'24
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Debasattam Pal
- **Prerequisites**: Basic courses on Control Theory, Linear Algebra, and Differential Equations
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content


Stability analysis of nonlinear systems through Lyapunov’s theorems, Chetaev’s theorem, LaSalle’s Invariance principle, and passivity analysis. It does not cover control of nonlinear systems.
### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures are pretty engaging and the professor emphasizes learning. He does not hesitate to answer doubts in lectures or convert lectures into doubt sessions, as his main motive is to make sure you understand the content being taught and not to cover everything mentioned in the syllabus.
### Feedback on Evaluations


The course will have three assignments, two quizzes, a midsem, and an endsem. The exams are relatively easy if you follow the lectures, and the evaluation is strict.
### Study Material and Resources


The professor religiously follows Nonlinear Systems by Hassan Khalil. It is a good book and is highly recommended for the course.
### Final Takeaway


I would suggest that you take this course if you are interested in control theory, as nonlinear systems are fundamental to control theory, and this course does its job of giving a good understanding of nonlinear systems.