---
layout: page
title: EE 613 - Nonlinear Dynamical Systems
subtitle: Harsh Shah, 2025(B.Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 613
- **Course Name**: Nonlinear Dynamical Systems
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Debasattam Pal
- **Prerequisites**: EE302 or any other intro to control course is required, majorly in the latter half of the course. A basic course in differential equations will be really helpful, but it can be learned on the go as well. This is a math-intense course and does have a lot of proof-based questions(epsilon-delta type) in the first half.
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 4

### Course Content
Sir directly followed Hassan Khalil, Nonlinear Systems book and covered chapters (1,2,4,5,6)(Parts of the chapter were skipped)
A brief overview of topics covered:
- Introduction to non-linear systems
- Phase portraits and behavior of non-linear systems near equilibrium points
- Linearization
- Lyapunov stability theory
- Input Output stability 
- Passivity

### Feedback on Lectures
The professor explained the course really well using the blackboard (no slides), and attending lectures is highly recommended. The course builds upon topics taught; missing lectures will cause a lot of problems. Tutorial sheets were provided and discussed in previous class before any exam. 

### Feedback on Evaluations
20% Assignment 
20% Quizs
30% Midsem
40% Endsem
(Not sure about the distribution but similar)
Exams were moderate in terms of difficulty. Exams had T/F kind of questions which were the most challenging. Need to provide the proof if true or construct counter examples. 

### Study Material and Resources
Hassan Khalil, Nonlinear Systems 

Sir followed this book and the tutorial sheets were also given which were also from exercises of the book. 

### Follow-up Courses
Will be helpful in other advanced control courses. The general ideas of equilibrium, stability and Lyapunov functions is highly useful and will be encountered in various places.

### Final Takeaway
Mathematical course but has a lot of intuition. If you don't like writing proofs then could be hard. Grading was decent, check ASC for exact numbers.

