---
layout: page
title: EE640 - Multivariable Controls System 
subtitle: Dhrumil Lotiya, 2026(DD)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE640
- **Course Name**: Multivariable Controls System 
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-'24
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Madhu N. Belur
- **Prerequisites**: EE302: Control Systems and EE635: Applied Linear Algebra(Not a strict prerequisite but the course will pass a lot more smoother if done this)
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content


Following is the content given on the asc and almost all of it were covered:

Examples of multivariable control systems. State space, polynomial and stable fraction models. Controllability, observability and computations involved in their analysis. Realization theory of multivariable systems and algorithms. Stability by Lyapunov`s method, solution of Lyapunov equations. Pole placement, observer design and stabilization theory. Spectral factorizations of systems. Solution of the Ricatti equation.Balanced realizations and their computations.
### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures were taught on board and no slides were used. The content itself also wasn't too difficult and with some consistent effort, the concepts could be grasped if one keeps track of what is being taught in the class. The professor also was enthusiastic while teaching and taught well. He made sure there were no blank minds in the class before proceeding forward with next topic. Help sessions were arranged before midsems and endsems ,if students had any doubts to clarify.Few tutorial sessions were conducted were TAs were available to clarify any doubts we had.
### Feedback on Evaluations


Exam-policy:

Quiz 1: 7% (end of 2nd week of course)
Midsem: 25% (during midsem week)
Quiz 2: 25% in end-Oct
Endsem: 43%

The exams were not difficult. Most of the questions in both quizzes and exams were asked from tutorial. The questions in the tutorial were doable and could be solved easily if one had paid good enough amount of attention in class and were clear with the concepts taught in class. 

Grading was not too difficult and marks were given for the correct thought process and steps even if one could not arrive at final answer.
### Study Material and Resources


The professor religiously follows Nonlinear Systems by Hassan Khalil. It is a good book and is highly recommended for the course.
### Final Takeaway


I would suggest that you take this course if you are interested in control theory, as nonlinear systems are fundamental to control theory, and this course does its job of giving a good understanding of nonlinear systems.