---
layout: page
title: EE 238 - Power Engineering -II
subtitle: Nimay Shah, 2026(B.Tech))
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 238
- **Course Name**: Power Engineering -II
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Kishore Chatterjee
- **Prerequisites**: Power Engineering - I
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content
DC and AC Machines, Synchronous Generators, Motors, Motoring Operation, Pulse Width Modulators, Diodes and other Power Electronic Devices

### Feedback on Lectures
The lectures were carried out in an effective and organized manner. They were well organized and bifurcated. We covered all introductory topics, and concepts in the first part of the course- including phasors, circuit analysis, power electronic converters and did detailed analysis for the same. Later, we built upon those, and used the general techniques from there to analyze large scale devices and circuits- including the DC, AC and Synchronous machines. A good amount of numericals were solved in class, along with theory to give us a flavor of the examination. Overall, the lectures were conducted in a well-organized and effective manner.

### Feedback on Evaluations
The evaluations were on spot- with a heavy emphasis on numerical solving rather than just theory, and well distributed format with daily quizzes having a 10% weightage, 2 major quizzes with a total 10%, midsem with a 30% and endsem with a 50% weightage, it was well distributed among all the examinations. The examinations were on the difficult side with tricky to solve questions, but the grading was liberal with a good amount of AAs and ABs given to the students.

### Study Material and Resources
The slides were great, with them touching upon each and every detail required in the course. With it, the books suggested also really helped to dive deeper into the concepts. He gave timely assignments, which although had no weightage but were really a good practice for the exams, and many times there were questions which were directly similar to the ones asked in the assignment, that got featured in the examinations. Overall, the course materials were self-sufficient and well organized

### Follow-up Courses
EE 6105- Power Systems Modelling and Control


### Final Takeaway
The course was great, with a great prof and liberal grading. It was one of the most interesting core courses in the 4th sem!

