---
layout: page
title: EE 240 - Power Engineering Lab
subtitle: Saatwik Patnaik, 2026(B.Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 240
- **Course Name**: Power Engineering Lab
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. Sandeep Anand, Prof. S. A. Soman, Prof. Shiladri Chakraborty, Prof. Anil Kulkarni
- **Prerequisites**: EE 238 (runs parallel), EE114
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 2

### Course Content
This lab course had both lectures and lab, with the lecture slot once a week in the afternoon. For each lab, the lab handout, given earlier, had to be read thoroughly to prepare a pre-lab report. There was also a basic viva in every lab session about the practical experiment. After performing the experiments in groups of four, the final report along with the observations had to be submitted as the post-lab report.

The labs conducted had experiments involving transformers, induction motors, DC motors etc. and a demonstration on synchronization in the end.

### Feedback on Lectures
The instructor mainly taught with the help of slides and videos before each experiment and in the lecture as well. The lectures were quite interesting and went in depth regarding how power is generated and transmitted, and the working of various motors and generators. The experiments also helped to understand these concepts better along with understanding the clever ways in which engineers were able to overcome problems in power transmission.

### Feedback on Evaluations
The lab reports were easy enough to make before each lab and the viva for the experiment also weren't that tricky in most cases.
There were 4 such lab sessions along with 2 demo sessions.
There was no midsem and the endsem was a practical exam in which a part of an experiment was assigned along with a few basic questions regarding the experiment.
The weightages were:

Pre-lab report – 15%

Post-lab work - 20%

Viva – 25% (individual weightages not known)

Endsem – 40%

Grading was very good, 181 out of 218 students got AB or above grade.

### Study Material and Resources
The lab handouts and course lectures uploaded on moodle were more than enough

### Follow-up Courses
None

### Final Takeaway

The course gives you an opportunity to put the theory learned in EE 114 and EE 238 to use and helps you understand the concepts better. The course is also fairly easy and you can end up getting a decent grade even without much time commitment.

