---
layout: page
title: EE 240-Power Engineering Lab
subtitle: Ashish Prasad, 2026(Dual Degree)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 240
- **Course Name**: Power Engineering Lab
- **Course Offered In**: Spring Semester
- **Instructors**: Shiladri Chakraborty and Sandeep Anand
- **Prerequisites**: EE 114 (power engineering I) and the course is aligned with EE 238 (power engineering II)
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 3

### Course Content


The course involved a practical demonstration of concepts learned in EE114 and EE238, like transformers, induction motors, DC motors, DC generators, star and delta connections, etc. 
### Feedback on Lectures


The lectures by Sandeep sir was was very good and informative, whereas that by Shiladri sir was lengthy, monotonic, and not interactive. Also, lectures were not of much use so it is more important to be thorough with the lab experiment manual.
### Feedback on Evaluations


Grading was fairly chill, 184 out of 210 students got AB or above grade, also grading, up to some extent, depends upon the TA so it's very important to have good relations with the TA. some TAs used to ask tough questions in viva while others used to ask easy.
### Study Material and Resources


The lab sheet which is released a week before the lab is enough. I felt that paying due attention in lectures of EE238 is also equally important because most of the viva questions asked are discussed in the lectures. 
### Final Takeaway


Don't allow TAs to deduct marks except in areas that are easy to score like pre-lab and post-lab. Make diagrams, write formulas, and make graphs on graph sheets or Python. Try to have good relations with the TAs. At first pre-lab and post-lab might seem a bit time-consuming.