---
layout: page
title: Ee337-Microprocessors Lab
subtitle: Ayushh, 2025(B. Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: Ee337
- **Course Name**: Microprocessors Lab
- **Course Offered In**: 2022-23
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Prof. S. Vijayakumaran
- **Prerequisites**: No prerequisites. Theory course running in parallel benefits a lot as Viru Sir usually cover all the topics in labs in more detail. 
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content


The lab experience overall was very good as it did not involve any intensive work during the lab hours unlike the other 2 labs in the semester. Instead, the students were provided with problem sets (usually 2 to 3 problems per week) in advance. On the lab day, they were only required to present their solutions during the viva session. Midsem and Endsem were both 3 hour long where we had to solve 2 problems which might involve hardware implementation. It is strongly recommended that students make an effort to solve the problems on their own or dedicate more time to understanding the code. Otherwise, the process of building logical solutions and debugging during exams can become quite exhausting
### Feedback on Lectures


The course was split into 2 parts. In the first half, we used assembly language to solve basic DSA questions and understand concepts of timers and interrupts. This part of the course was fascinating because we essentially worked with a basic machine language, providing valuable insights into how computers analyse intricate algorithms. The second half of course introduced us to Embedded C, one of the most popular languages for developing electronic systems. We learnt concepts like keypad interfacing and serial communication which also overlapped with the theory course content at the time, giving us good practice of these advanced topics.
### Feedback on Evaluations


Grading was majorly decided by midsem and endsem examination as it was difficult to create a significant difference in Vivas. Overall grading was lenient. 
### Study Material and Resources


https://ee337.github.io/
### Follow-up Courses


Ee739, cs683
### Final Takeaway


Distribution:
Lab Timings :  Monday ( 2pm - 5pm ).
Marks Distribution: 40% In-Lab, 25% Midsem, 35% Endsem 
(Midsem, Endsem both included hardware implementations)
Feedback:
The course was very chill given you attempt the problems honestly. The major problem which many faced was debugging of their code during the examination. However, overall, the course was a pretty good learning experience.