---
layout: page
title: EE 337 - Microprocessors Laboratory
subtitle: Anshu Arora, 2026 (B.Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 337
- **Course Name**: Microprocessors Laboratory
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Siddhant Singh Tomar
- **Prerequisites**: No prerequisites!
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 2

### Course Content
We had a total of 10 or 11 lab session, the first half being based on assembly code, the latter half on C coding. The initial 4 labs were pretty easy but a little labour work because you need to write each basic step for assembly language coding (its not high-level like python, where you can give complicated instructions. Here there are just a few basic operations and you need to execute your task just using a combination of these). Once the C- coding part  begins, it gets fun. You get to do things like making a buzzer and a cheap keyboard like thing. Bottomline, if you do your work before hand (the good thing about this course is that you get the next labs content a bunch of days prior to the actual lab), lab just becomes a fun session where you can try playing Dhoom Machale theme on your buzzer. 

### Feedback on Lectures
The lab lectures were decent, fairly informative. But the thing about his course is that it is very hands on, and only if you try will you be able to do it. 

### Feedback on Evaluations
I think evaluations were decent and done fairly. I think the weightage given to labs and exams was also fair.

### Study Material and Resources
An online git hub repo will be shared, that is enough. This course mainly requires practice so definitely check out previous year questions and practice them!

### Follow-up Courses
Labs have follow-up courses...? Well I think if you like this lab then consider joining a tech team.

### Final Takeaway
Fun course, the TAs are very chill and helpful. It isnt a very strict lab so you can discuss different approaches to the problem with your TA and friends in the lab itself- this is very important. I feel like this course gives you a basic hands on with tech and gives a flavour of how things are actually done. Its a minimal effort lab (unlike the other labs in EE), so do it well!

