---
layout: page
title: EE 338 - Digital Signal Processing
subtitle: Sarvadnya Desai, 2025(B. Tech.)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE 338
- **Course Name**: Digital Signal Processing
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Spring
- **Instructors**: Vikram M. Gadre
- **Prerequisites**: EE 229 Signal Processing
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content
Recapitulation of fundamentals of Signal Processing, Z-Transform, Bilinear Transforms in Complex Plane, Fundamentals in Analog Filter Design (Butterworth and Chebyshev), Analog to Digital Filter Transformation, Filter window design Approach, IIR and FIR Filters, multi-dimension signal processing, extension of notions of periodicity and sampling to the Nth Dimension, advent of Machine Learning and its fundamental connection with Signal Analysis and Processing 

### Feedback on Lectures
The lectures were a bit slow paced in the beginning however the difficult of the course grew up quickly post the mid semester. The instructor prefers black board-based teaching over creating presentations which makes the discussions in class livelier and more constructive. Participate in the class discussion and don't feel afraid to ask unconventional doubts as they might help the instructor provide some new information to the class which might help you solve an additional examination problem.

### Feedback on Evaluations
The instructor emphasizes heavily on class participation methods such as attempting challenge problems, designing filters, learning via pedology, etc. The duration of the course remains happening through the semester with a lot of opportunities to earn credit such as mid-semester take home assignment, class quizzes (the instructor may/may not take), RnD Assignments mid-semester and end semester examinations. 

### Study Material and Resources
Instructor Class Notes are the best source of information. Most of the difficult problems are available in the question banks provided by the instructor. Solve challenge and exercise problems provided by the instructor they offer good insight into the subject and help solve examination problems. 
Books:
Discrete-Time Signal Processing, Alan V. Oppenheim Massachusetts Institute of Technology
other books in the handout offered by the instructor are domain specific, find and read what interests you! 

### Follow-up Courses
EE 678 Wavelets, EE779 Advanced Topics in Signal Processing (only recommended for the brave hearted :) ) and Courses in Image Processing

### Final Takeaway
Be active to what the instructor says in class and try to be on your toes during the class, you will learn a lot. Do not be afraid to explore problems with different approaches, sincerity and creativity are heavily awarded in the duration of the course.

