---
layout: page
title: EE350-Technical communication 
subtitle: Tanmay Joshi, 2024(B.Tech)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

# Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE350
- **Course Name**: Technical communication 
- **Course Offered In**: 2022-23
- **Instructors**: Prof D. Manjunath, Prof Shiladri Chakraborty, Prof Satish Mulleti, Prof S.V. Kulkarni, Prof Debanjan Bhowmik
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (on a scale of 5)**: 2

# Course Content


The course revolved around enabling people to write, publish and present academic content. There were five modules in the course: Grammar, Punctuation, Data visualisation, Ethics and Technical writing. Grammar dealt with basic English grammar rules covering parts of speech, articles, voice, etc. Both of the first two modules elaborated on subtle differences between certain similar usages of words and punctuation. The third module covered several types of graphs and charts and when to use them to most appropriately convey information. The fourth module taught academic ethics and various plagiarism rules associated with publishing papers, also covering patents and copyright rules and regulations. The last module covered various sections of a paper and the information which should be ideally conveyed in them.
# Feedback on Lectures


Since there were five professors, lecturing professors varied and modules were divided among each of them. There were tutorial sessions for each section after a module was completed, wherein problems were solved in batches of 40/45 students with their respective professor. The professor went through key concepts which the module presented, and proceeded with questions and problems. Lectures were good enough for the content, though the first two modules might have been redundant for many. 
# Feedback on Evaluations


Evaluation consisted of 3 quizzes,  endsem exam and one final seminar. The exams revolved around concepts taught in class and problems asked were similar to those discussed in tutorials. The seminar consisted of one report in an IEEE format and one presentation, and made up quite a big part of the evaluation. 