---
layout: page
title: EE722 - Restructured Power System
subtitle: Rudraksh Sangore, 2026(Dual Degree)
cover-img: assets/img/Cover_study.jpg
thumbnail-img: ""
share-img: ""
comments: true
tags: [Academic]
---

### Basic Information

- **Course Code**: EE722
- **Course Name**: Restructured Power System
- **Course Offered In**: 2023-2024
- **Semester Season**: Autumn
- **Instructors**: Prof. Anupama Kowli
- **Prerequisites**: None
- **Difficulty (1 being easy and 5 being tough)**: 3

### Course Content
Fundamentals of restructured system, Market Architecture, Load Elasticity, Social welfare maximization, OPF: Role in vertically integrated systems and in restructured markets, Congestion Management, Optimal Bidding, Risk assessment and Hedging, Transmission Pricing and Tracing of power, Ancillary Services, Standard Market Design, Distributed Generation in restructured markets, Developments in India, IT applications in restructured markets, Working of restructured power systems: PJM

### Feedback on Lectures
Lectures are crucial in this course. While slides are provided, the in-class content is highly beneficial. The lectures primarily focus on economics and optimization and are easy to grasp if you attend all of them, as each one is important

### Feedback on Evaluations
The evaluation is fair. You get marks if your method is correct. For some questions they might be strict.

### Study Material and Resources
Lectures and the slides provided are sufficient 

### Follow-up Courses
None

### Final Takeaway
This course is mostly based on economics of the power systems and not the theory of power. You will like this course if you like optimization problems and market problems. 

